Howdy,

My name is Ben West, I'm a type 1 diabetic using an
insulin pump and other gear made by Medtronic.  The
insulin pump infuses me with insulin using suggestions
generated by special therapeutic software whenever I
manually intervene, and on an ongoing basis.

The pump automatically keeps logs of its behavior I need
in order to monitor and manage my ongoing therapy.  In the
process of setting out to reverse engineer the protocol
https://github.com/bewest/insulaudit in order to audit my
logs, I discovered that the protocol includes a suite of
commands that can be used to control the pump's
primitives.

The pump's therapeutic software has bugs that require me
to use folk-lore passed to me to manually override the
suggestions with newer "safe" suggestions without the
support of science or software.  Without constant action
to manually over-ride the pump, the pump will give me the
incorrect amount of insulin, causing insulin reactions and
in some cases even contributing to severe hyperglycemia
requiring hospitalization.

The FDA recently acknowledged the safety problems involved
in pump therapy:
http://www.fda.gov/ForHealthProfessionals/ArticlesofInterest/ucm295562.htm
Many patients are actively harmed by lack of access to
epistemic certainty of what to expect from their therapy.
Eg, the fidelity of their care is poor because they are
prevented from empirically understanding their own
therapy or ensuring its safety.  This lack of access
provides the largest vendors with a market absent of
competitors, ensuring they can always sell new pumps and
other products in ways they can control.  The priorities
giving them this position in the market also create
dangerous and unethical scenarios that I and other
patients could fix or work around if only we had access to
the right information.

I need the ability to inspect the device for bugs, to
monitor it's ongoing behavior, and to use the primitive
capabilities of the device as recommended by my doctor.
Without this, I'm constantly suffering from incorrect
dosages of insulin.  There are some well known examples of
this that many doctors will be familiar with, such as the
life time of active insulin.  The variable representing
this value was hardcoded into early production models,
ensuring an incorrect bolus.  Software using the remote
diagnostic protocol could circumvent the on board
therapeutic dosage generator without modifying the device
in any way, using commands they support with their remote
control product to generate safer suggestions on demand,
and could allow patients to audit logs without vendor
software.

I've called Medtronic and repeatedly asked for access to
documentation of the remote diagnostic protocol, and for
access to the firmware so that I can analyze it for safety
and provide tools to verify expected therapy outcomes.
They have denied my request every time without arguing the
merits of my request, simply admitting that it's
proprietary.  I want to make clear I am not talking about
servicing or modifying my insulin pump.  I am talking
about the ability to correctly calibrate and fill my
syringe, something Medtronic has expressly prevented me
from doing.  The vendor is preventing access to
information necessary for safe therapy, and has employed
bundling and misinformation on the technology in order to
shape the market place in their favor at the cost of
safety.

Originally I believed I only needed access to my own
medical data and ended up discovering that the device has
the capability to work around faults in the on board
therapeutic software.  I'm sick of suffering from insulin
reactions and *need* access to the protocol in order to
safely administer my therapy.
Can anyone help?  The FDA report
http://www.fda.gov/ForHealthProfessionals/ArticlesofInterest/ucm295562.htm
confirms that lack of epistemic certainty regarding
therapy results in harming patients.  It is a reflection
on Medtronic that they refuse to share the knowledge
needed to prevent these adverse events.

I shouldn't have to reverse engineer my own medical data.
I don't understand how they can get away with doing harm
to people this way.  I believe it is their intent to work
with industry groups to allow read-only access to filtered
feeds, and few people will even know that bugs in the
device can be mediated using capabilities the manufacturer
supports.  I cannot abide allowing someone to give insulin
to me without empirically investigating their methods,
it's just too dangerous.

-bewest
Ben West
San Francisco
415-205-3920

http://openaccess.city.ac.uk/1069/1/1oo2-revised-13apr11.pdf

